---
title: "Agentic Patterns"
slug: "agentic-patterns"
category: "ai-and-slds-2"
order: 0
---

Agentic experiences are systems and interfaces that empower users to accomplish their goals with the help of autonomous AI agents. Use these patterns to create agentic experiences in Salesforce products.

## AI-Enabled Cards

Use AI-enabled cards for evergreen AI content within a page. Cards summarize and recommend actions after users generate content, regenerate content, and sometimes automatically generate. AI cards are compact and scannable, while still allowing users to expand AI insights if needed.

**
An empty agentic card

**Do
Do show an empty state until a user generates content.

**
An agentic card with a data table and multiple actions

**Don’t
Don't display complex data on a single card.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Show an empty state until a user generates content.

Don't display complex data on a single card.

Always show generated content sources.

Avoid cluttering dashboards with too many AI-driven cards.

Allow for human feedback.

Stack cards if more than one is needed.

## Assistant Panels

Assistant panels are optional conversational AI dialogs that users can open to get help and close when the help is no longer needed. Assistant panels facilitate a back-and-forth conversation with predictive and proactive interactions. Users can toggle the visibility of an assistant when needed. Additionally, assistant panels can resize, float, and be pinned above content. When closed, an assistant panel isn't visible but retains its content history and previous state. The prompt composer is docked at the bottom of the assistant panel.

**

**Do
Do allow panels in builders to pop out and float in order to provide optimal workspace.

**

**Don’t
Don’t update data without human consent from the assistant panel.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Provide prompt recommendations based on context and actions.

Don’t update data without human consent from the assistant panel.

Dock panels within modal dialogs.

Don’t automatically open or close the panel without explicit action by the user.

Allow panels in builders to pop out and float in order to provide optimal workspace.

## Canvases

Use plain language to ask AI for a custom view of your information. Canvases are fully interactive and customizable areas of content generated by AI. They're also multimodal, personalized, and dynamic. Central to the canvas is a bottom-centered prompt composer.

**

**Do
Do display individual cards for each insight requested by the user

**

**Do
Use multiple input methods besides text, such as voice.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Display individual cards for each insight requested by the user

Don’t replace existing UI elements with AI-generated components without user control

Provide actionable insights in each generated component

Don’t use text as the only allowed input method

Use signifiers to indicate the generated components can be moved and resized

## Disambiguation

Disambiguation provides details and further grounding to AI, which turns vague prompts into data-specific requests.

**

**Do
Provide radio button groups with data-grounding options.

**

**Don’t
Don’t make disambiguation a multi-step process.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Provide radio button groups with data-grounding options.

Don’t display checkboxes or text inputs to support disambiguation.

Display an action to submit the disambiguation form.

Don’t make disambiguation a multistep process.

## Feeds

Actions and prompts appear chronologically in structured feeds. AI and human responses are clearly identified using avatars. The feed history is saved with an option to clear it. Additionally, structured data is presented in cards.

**

**Do
Do display feedback on each action.

**

**Don’t
Don't fill the feed with long text and unnecessary AI responses.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Display timestamps and authorship labels for actions.

Don’t create dead ends in conversations.

Display feedback on each action.

Don't fill the feed with long text and unnecessary AI responses.

Allow users to refine actions.

## Forms

### AI-Enabled Form Fields

AI can automatically generate form content and provide predictive input suggestions without disrupting manual input. Make sure that users retain control over autofill values in AI-assisted forms.

**

**Do
Do indicate AI-enabled fields with a single sparkle icon.

**

**Do
Always provide modification controls. Don’t restrict inputs to only generated data without enabling manual overrides.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Indicate AI-enabled fields with a single sparkle icon next to the field label.

Don’t enable AI-generated fields if it takes more steps to generate input than manually making a selection.

Allow manual overrides on AI-generated entries.

Don’t restrict inputs to only generated data without enabling manual overrides.

### Form Dirty State Management

When form fields have unsaved changes, they're in a dirty state. Fields in a dirty state from AI-generated changes are visually and programmatically marked as pending until confirmed. Additionally, AI-generated changes are visually distinct from human-created changes.

**

**Do
Do display change indicators for pending AI actions.

**

**Don’t
Avoid silent AI modifications to critical business records.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Display color-coded change indicators for pending AI actions.

Don't apply AI-generated changes without proper user validation.

Provide undo and confirmation options for AI-suggested modifications.

Avoid silent AI modifications to critical business records.

## Human Feedback

Let users share feedback on AI responses. Simple thumbs-up and thumbs-down options are quick. Users can also add detailed feedback in a long-form text input to provide more precise training data.

**

**Do
Do place the feedback interaction in a tertiary position so the action content is prioritized.

**

**Don’t
Don’t provide a single feedback option. Always show both thumbs up and down.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Place the feedback interaction in a tertiary position so the action content is prioritized.

Don’t require long-form text input.

Display confirmation after feedback is sent.

Don’t provide a single feedback option. Always show both thumbs up and down.

## Prompt Composer

The prompt composer must include text input. Other input types such as voice and other media are optional. Multimodal prompt composers allow for text, voice, and other media types. Prompt composers are always displayed at the bottom center of their parent container.

**

**Do
While AI is working, change the send button to a stop button.

**

**Don’t
Don't add prompt input controls outside of the prompt composer.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Include a send button within the composer.

Don't add prompt input controls outside the prompt composer.

While AI is working, change the send button to a stop button.

Don't move the prompt composer's expected placement.

## Onboarding & Discovery

To effectively onboard new users to an AI experience, show a welcome panel and disclaimer upon their first interaction. Use progressive disclosure to gradually introduce new AI features. Provide first-time users with guided walkthroughs and adaptive tooltips to enhance their understanding. These techniques can ease their transition into using the AI experience.

**

**Do
Include example actions for common tasks to help the user get started.

**

**Don’t
Don’t expect first-time users to be experts using AI.

**Do's**

**Don'ts**

Include example actions for common tasks to help the user get started.

Don’t expect first-time users to be experts using AI.

Guide users with product-led onboarding.

Don’t introduce new features without designing a discovery.
